The year is 1848. On January 12, Sicily declares independence, as they do in OTL. This time, however, the rebels mobilize faster and trap the Two-Sicilian army in Messina. Facing an increasingly hostile populace and outbreaks of disease, the battered army would surrender before the year was out. The rebels' increasing success would throughout the year serve as an encouragement in the events to follow.

In February, the French revolt as in OTL, and encouraged by the Sicilians they rapidly overthrow Louis-Philipe and instute Louis-Napoleon, who with the full support of the people declares the Second French Empire without an intervening Republic. 

The momentum of these revolts transfers to Germany, where in March a number of states are overthrown. The Frankfurt Parliament declares the German Confederation and, following a three-way contest between Prussia, Austria, and the liberal western states, comes to an agreement appointing a Habsburg to the largely titular throne of Kaiser of Germany, while the position of Reichskanzler is created as a title held ex oficio of the throne of Prussia. 
Incidentally, a young Prussian noble, Otto von Bismarck, is arrested for treason after successfully raising a small peasant army against the new regime and disappears from the annals of history. 

The new German government quickly makes a number of significant liberal reforms now that Konig Frederick Wilhelm IV lacks the conservative Camarilla. The Landtag is to be composed of representatives elected freely (by property-holding men), and the authority of the Kaiser is harshly limited. It sides with the new "liberal" French regime and renounces all non-German territory, though these lands would continue to be held by Habsburgs, or, in the case of Ostpreussen, Hohenzollerns. The various princes of the German states would retain their respective thrones but were limited by a constitution as liberal as that of the confederation as a whole, which guaranteed absolute freedom of the speech, of the press, and of religion. 

Denmark's revolution happens as in OTL, but the German government allows Schleswig to decide its sovereignty by referendum, which decides in Denmark's favor. This weakens their position, but given the depletion of the army in the short but brutal battles shortly earlier they are unable to organize an overthrow and after a brief standoff the most conservative elements surrender.

After their effective abandonment by the Habsburg leadership, the provinces left behind quickly found themselves mired in revolt, with succesful Republican revolutions in Northern Italy creating the republics of San Marco, Milan, and Tuscany, the latter two of which voted to join and create a fledgeling republic of northern italy which retained the first's name. An allied revolution in Turin forced the King of Sardinia-Piedmont to retreat to Sardinia, and France quickly invaded and installed a puppet to "enforce order", hinting at the chaos to come and at Napoleon III's true temperament.

In the chaos, states such as Serbia and Croatia (titled as Croazia in TTL due to San Marco-an influence) are established in former Habsburg Illyria, while Hungary restores an independent native Empire and manages to secure Galicia and Ruthenia for itself. The Czechs create the independent Republic of Bohemia-Moravia, but in TTL Panslavism is more focused on Yugoslavia so they don't have a single identity as of 1900. 

Speaking of, the Ottomans find themselves under siege as ethnic revolutions threaten their holdings in the Balkans. The slightly-Sick Man of Europe is unable to counter these as former Habsburg lands (and newly-loyal former-Habsburg armies) support a revolution in Bulgaria which also prevents them from enforcing order in Greece, Montenegro, and Albania. The latter two find their demands enforced by a battered Two Sicilies, which ends up annexing the two as subject duchies. Romania, finding itself cut off from the Empire, finds itself suddenly independent and institutes a Kingdom hesitantly allied with the Yugoslavs in the Balkan Bloc. This brings the revolutions to the doorstep of Russia. 

In Switzerland, the Sonderbund War (extended by volunteers from other revolutionary countries) is abruptly ended when a secret agreement between France, Germany, and San Marco leads to the annexation of the ethnically French, German, and Italian portions of the country, respectively. In the interest of "freedom", a small "Romansh Republic" is created in the areas primarily inhabited by that people.

These events cause great consternation to Queen Victoria, who grows increasingly conservative and paranoid. Though they hardly affect the British Empire, with the exception of an uprising in Ireland, quickly (and brutally) crushed and not entirely unusual, and a few liberal PMs making a bit of republican noise, she grows distrustful of the limits on her power and works to expand it over the coming years.

Russia finds itself embroiled in a number of major revolutions over the coming years, including a partially successful January Uprising which in TTL occurs in 1851, a Finno-Karelian Revolution (supported by a nascent Scandinavian Union) in 1854, and finally a full-scale revolt in all of the West, in the Caucasus, and in Central Asia. These are only quashed when Alexander II reluctantly grants significant autonomy to certain non-Russian provinces and eventually, at the demands of an increasingly liberal parliament and an increasingly victorious Scando-Finno-Karelian alliance, relinquishes claims on Finland and Karelia. These defeats, however, give him a bad taste in his mouth and make him an easy ally for the increasingly conservative France and Great Britain.

In 1860 the election of one Abraham Lincoln in America starts a civil war in which southern states fought to defend the institution of slavery upon which their economy was based. More than OTL, this became a proxy war where Germany and San Marco support the Union while the conservative Great Britain and France support the Confederacy. The major change is that the Confederacy survives through two terms of Abraham Lincoln (and he does as well, obviously), albeit being exiled to their Golden Circle conquests of Cuba and Dominica (Haiti having been supported by the Union and by the various liberal states including Brazil, whose Pedro II finds himself aligning quite well with both America and Germany. Lincoln, moreso as a political leader since he refuses to run for a third term, negotiates a firm version of Reconstruction which ends up lasting until (at least) 1900 but means freedmen are guaranteed their right to vote.

In 1868, Meiji finds himself victorious in a brutal civil war. As in OTL, he chooses to model his government on the Germans, but given its liberal constitution Japan becomes more liberal. 

By 1870 tensions between the conservative Great Britain and France find themselves at a boiling point. Unnerved by increasing Dutch-Deutsch ties and a liberalizing government there, the French and Belgians engineer a soft coup in which the King gained far more power. Germany understandable disputes this and this leads to a hotter Franco-German War, which has far-lasting consequences. The short of it is that the allied Germans, Dutch, Scandinavians, Czechs, (newly independent) Poles, and Italians manage to defeat the conservatives due primarily to far superior infrastructure and weaponry, especially given Russian trouble moving through the mess of client states they held in between the combatants. In the aftermath, Flanders is annexed to a new Republic of the Netherlands, exiling the King to the East Indies, Belgium (now Wallonia) finds itself a French client state and Leopold II exiled to his nascent African colonies, where his reign in Congo finds himself even more brutal than OTL (leading to an increase in anticolonial sentiment). Poland finds its independence officialized by Russia, though in exchange some Hohenzollerns are forced to cede their lands to grant Poland a port, Danzig is released as a free republic, and France is allowed to keep Piedmont.

Little else happens by 1900 except an earlier Arab Revolt leading to the independence of Kurdistan and an Emirate of Arabia weakened by Hashemite-Saudi infighting, the secession of the Basque Commune in 1893, the nonexistance of a Brazilian coup leading to Pedro II abdicating his throne shortly before his death in favor of his daughter Isabel, and an increasing decentralization of the British Empire. Bonus trends-but-not-events are the establishment of an international city of Shanghai, the increased strength of Mexico due to profits from a tax of a southern railroad since the Gadsden Purchase is not signed, and Hawaii's continued independence, though as a puppet of America. The colonization of Africa goes mostly as in OTL, except in South Africa where a weaker Empire loses strategically to a Zulu-Boer alliance (supported by the Dutch against the recommendations of Germany), though these states remain quite weak. In addition, the Qing modernize more and are thus able to resist Japan more, including preventing puppeting of Korea (though Manchukuo is still carved out after much fighting). A lack of justification (since Havana is held by Confederates) prevents a Spanish-American War so Spain retains its colonies, though increasing liberal agitation would lead to the likely secession of Catalonia in early 1900. At some point, too, the Habsburgs managed to claim the throne of Naples through some sort of succession. Also, Sweden-Norway would federate with Denmark before the Scando-Russian War for whatever reason.